Of course, it’s easy to say “let’s modify gravity,” much harder to come up with a good model. Indeed, it’s not even obvious what issue you’d like your model to address — the need for dark matter in galaxies, clusters, and large-scale structure; or the perplexingly small value of the cosmological constant; or the acceleration of the universe conventionally attributed to dark energy.
Modifying gravity with the goal of replacing dark matter is a long-standing project that has met with mixed success, most famously pursued by Milgrom and his friends. Milgrom has an idea called “Modified Newtonian Dynamics,” or MOND for short. For some introductions see pages by Greg Bothun or Stacy McGaugh, or this review by Sellwood and Kosowsky. The idea is to slightly increase the Newtonian gravitational acceleration when that acceleration is very small, so that slowly-moving particles feel more force than they ordinarily would, mimicking the presence of unseen matter. This idea works extremely well for individual galaxies; indeed, Milgrom made predictions for the behavior of low-surface-brightness galaxies before they were directly observed, and the predictions were later confirmed very nicely.
Unfortunately, there are problems with the MOND paradigm itself. For one thing, it’s not really a “theory”, it’s just a rule for making predictions in a very specific set of circumstances — slowly-moving particles orbiting around massive bodies. (Just as an observational matter, it doesn’t even seem to work very well for clusters of galaxies, although it does quite well for individual galaxies.) Since it’s not a full-blown theory, it’s hard to make predictions for other tests you might like to do, like deflection of light or cosmology. So people have been trying to invent an actual theory that reduces to MOND in the appropriate circumstances. In a recent proposal, Bekenstein has claimed to succeed; now people are at work putting this idea to the test, to see both if it makes sense and if it agrees with other things we know about cosmology.

