So far, the UW experiments have not detected any violations of the EP. But if they did, you wouldn’t conclude that Einstein was wrong; instead you would guess that the bodies you were using weren’t really “uncharged.” In other words, you would have discovered a fifth force. The best limits right now on such fifth forces are that they are less than one-trillionth the strength of gravity, if they exist at all; that’s incredibly weak. The fact that there is no noticeable fifth force is one of the most profound facts of physics.
We know of four forces in nature: gravitation, electromagnetism, and the strong and weak nuclear forces. The latter two only operate over very short ranges (atomic scales and below), leaving only gravity and E&M as forces relevant to our daily lives. (“Electricity” and “magnetism” are two different manifestations of the same force.) This is the deep and astonishing fact: everything we directly see around us can be accounted for by some simple forms of matter (electrons, atomic nuclei) interacting through just those two forces. Fortunately for us, they can interact in extremely intricate ways.
Scientists like to talk about what they are currently doing research on, which by construction tends to be speculative ideas at the boundaries of our ignorance. What can easily get lost is an appreciation for how much we actually know beyond any reasonable doubt, and how little wriggle room there is. ESP, astrology, and other paranormal phenomena provide excellent examples of ideas that simply can’t work. When scientists criticize these ideas, they often start talking about blind tests and repeatability and so forth. All well and good, but the fact is that these ideas have no chance of being right even before we test them directly. There is no way for the human brain to send out a signal that would read a mind or bend a spoon, nor is there any way for the planet Venus to influence your love life. Any such influence would have to be communicated by one of the forces of nature, and there are only two possibilities: gravitation and electromagnetism. In either case the size of the force would be easily detectable, and we haven’t detected it.
